P-2 Acceptable Use Practices
============================

| Key              | Details                                                                          |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Practice:        | 20                                                                               |
| Title:           | Acceptable Use Practices                                                         |
| Last-Modified:   | 2017-09-29                                                                       |
| Author:          |                                                                                  |
| Status:          | Active                                                                           |
| Type:            | Process                                                                          |
| Created:         | 01-Aug-2017                                                                      |
| Post-History:    | 29-Sep-2017                                                                      |
| Confidentiality: | General public                                                                   |
| Read-Time:       | 10 min                                                                           |


Abstract
========
This practice describes from an organization perspective the procedures and processes that will be followed when using GovReady PBC’s systems and devices, and when handling GovReady PBC’s information and data. This practice also specifies how GovReady PBC defines misuse, and how GovReady PBC will address misuse. This practice applies to any person who carries out work in any capacity for GovReady PBC and its subsidiaries, and includes all employees, workers, contractors, sub-contractors, volunteers, trainees and apprentices.

Contents
========

  * [Abstract](#Abstract)
  * [Motivation](#Motivation)
  * [Information Handling](#Information-Handling)
     * [Passwords and Authentication](#Passwords-and-Authentication)
     * [Sensitive Information](#Sensitive-Information)
     * [Client Data](#Client-Data)
     * [Clear Screen](#Clear-Screen)
  * [Computing devices](#Computing-devices)
     * [Ownership](#Ownership)
     * [Password Protection](#Password-Protection)
     * [Device Encryption](#Device-Encryption)
     * [Patching](#Patching)
  * [Information Systems](#Information-Systems)
     * [Email, Slack, Social Media Communications](#Email-Slack-Social-Media-Communications)
     * [Internet Use](#Internet-Use)
     * [Misuse](#Misuse)
  * [Monitoring](#Monitoring)


Motivation
==========
GovReady PBC's of staff, contractors, and all those who have access to GovReady PBC’s systems must uphold acceptable security practices while interacting with GovReady PBC’s systems, and while handling GovReady PBC’s information. These practices provide practical guidance, designed to ensure that GovReady PBC’s systems and information remain protected while GovReady PBC staff and contractors carry out their responsibilities.

Information Handling
====================

GovReady PBC sets forth the following policy and practices to insure the security of all information handled by the organization. Individuals are considered to be handling information correctly by following the following the specific practices described in [P-21 Information Handling Practices for Staff and Contractors](p-0021.md).

### Passwords and Authentication
GovReady PBC uses strong passwords and keeps them safe at all times. Passwords used for GovReady-related accounts, including systems owned by GovReady PBC and from external providers, must be strong and difficult to guess or computationally expensive to crack. 

GovReady PBC uses two Factor Authentication for all systems that support it. The use of an authenticator application, such as Google Authenticator or Authy, is recommended over use of SMS for Two Factor Authentication.

GovReady PBC requires passwords used for work-related accounts, including systems owned by GovReady PBC and from external providers, must:

- Be at least 10 characters long
- Not be used for any other accounts, including your personal accounts
- Be kept secret – never share your password with anyone
- Not be written down or stored anywhere except in approved Password Management software
- Not be transmitted via email, SMS (text message) or instant messaging services

| Approved Password Managers | Website                     |
|:---------------------------|:----------------------------|
| LastPass                   | https://www.lastpass.com/   |
| Passpack                   | https://www.passpack.com/   |

GovReady PBC requires SSH keys be protected with passphrases and the passphrase is either memorized or stored in approved Password Management software.

### Sensitive Information
GovReady PBC always handles with due care and does not share with unauthorized parties information regarding the internal operation of GovReady PBC and GovReady PBC clients. This includes emails, slack communications, details of internal discussions, documents and information relating to our clients.

GovReady PBC staff and contractors only use tools provided by or identified and approved by GovReady PBC, for example G-Suite and slack, to share information marked or identified as confidential.

GovReady PBC does not handle any on any of its systems information identified by the U.S. government as Classified.

GovReady PBC has established controls for handling Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) in accordance to NIST Special Publication 800-171.

### Client Data
GovReady PBC considers client data, and data from production systems to be especially sensitive and handled with additional care. GovReady PBC always encrypts client data in transit, and at rest (for example on an encrypted hard drive). GovReady PBC does not transmit client data via email, unless requested explicitly by the client, and instead uses secure file sharing services. GovReady PBC data securely archives and/or destroys client information as soon as it is no longer required to provide customer support or for legal requirements.

### Clear Screen
GovReady PBC requires devices be protected while unattended. GovReady PBC staff and contractors always:

- Lock computing devices (e.g. computer, mobile phone) when they are unattended.
- Immediately remove sensitive or classified information from printers.

Computing devices
=================

### Ownership

- All computers and mobile devices issued to staff remain the property of GovReady PBC. 
- GovReady PBC takes no responsibility for personal devices used for work purposes.
- Employees must surrender all GovReady PBC information or data they have in their possession upon termination of employment, including any notes or paper records that belong to GovReady PBC.

### Password Protection
All devices (workstations, laptops and mobile devices) must require a login password. 

### Device Encryption
All devices (workstations, laptops and mobile devices) must have device (disk) encryption enabled. 

### Patching
All devices (workstations, laptops and mobile devices) must be patched and kept up to date. Applying patches and updates is the responsibility of the operator of the device, and patches must be applied within one week of release. Critical security patches must be applied immediately. It is highly recommended that automatic updates are enabled on workstations, laptops and mobile devices.

Information Systems
===================

### Email, Slack, Social Media Communications
Communications sent from GovReady PBC’s email, slack or Social Media systems impact on the reputation of the company. The content of such communications should be professional.

### Internet Use

- Private GovReady PBC information will not be disclosed without prior authorisation.
- All GovReady PBC computers should be running a local firewall.
- All devices should be running Anti-Virus software.

### Misuse

- GovReady PBC’s systems and devices will not be used to create, share or access any material that is illegal, obscene, lewd, pornographic, defamatory or otherwise inappropriate for the workplace.
- Unauthorised people will not be granted access to any device or system owned by GovReady.
- Personal accounts, or any unauthorised 3rd party services, will not be used to store or process information owned by GovReady PBC.

Misuse of GovReady PBC’s devices and systems will be investigated and may lead to disciplinary action being taken.

### Monitoring
GovReady PBC owns all communications stored in or sent through its systems. The company has the right to access any material in your email or stored in GovReady accounts, your electronic communication, storage and internet access using GovReady PBC’s systems should not be considered private.
