P-2 Acceptable Use Practices
============================

| Key              | Details                                                                          |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Practice:        | 21                                                                               |
| Title:           | Information Handling Practices for Staff and Contractors                         |
| Last-Modified:   | 2017-09-29                                                                       |
| Author:          |                                                                                  |
| Status:          | Active                                                                           |
| Type:            | Process                                                                          |
| Created:         | 01-Aug-2017                                                                      |
| Post-History:    | 29-Sep-2017                                                                      |
| Confidentiality: | General public                                                                   |
| Read-Time:       | 10 min                                                                           |


Abstract
========
This practice describes from an individual perspective the practices for handling GovReady PBC’s and GovReady PBC's client's information and data. You must follow these practices whenever you are working in any capacity for GovReady PBC and its subsidiaries if you are an employee, worker, contractor, sub-contractor, volunteer, trainee, intern or apprentice. Following these practices guarantees individuals are in compliance with the information handling aspects of GovReady PBC's [P-20 Acceptable Use Practices](p-0020.md).

Contents
========

  * [Abstract](#Abstract)
  * [Motivation](#Motivation)
  * [Information Handling](#Information-Handling-Practices-for-Staff-and-Contractors)
     * [Passwords and Authentication](#Passwords-and-Authentication)
     * [Sensitive Information](#Sensitive-Information)
     * [Client Data](#Client-Data)
     * [Clear Screen](#Clear-Screen-and-Printers)

Motivation
==========
GovReady PBC's of staff, contractors, and all those who have access to GovReady PBC’s systems must uphold acceptable security practices while interacting with GovReady PBC’s systems, and while handling GovReady PBC’s information. These practices provide practical guidance, designed to ensure that GovReady PBC’s systems and information remain protected while GovReady PBC staff and contractors carry out their responsibilities.

Information Handling Practices for Staff and Contractors
========================================================

### Passwords and Authentication

You are responsible for the management of your account credentials and the quality of your passwords. GovReady PBC uses strong passwords and keeps them safe at all times. Passwords used for GovReady-related accounts, including systems owned by GovReady PBC and from external providers, must be strong and difficult to guess or computationally expensive to crack.

Use two Factor Authentication for all systems that support it. The use of an authenticator application, such as Google Authenticator or Authy, is recommended over use of SMS for Two Factor Authentication.

Create and use SSH keys with passphrases and either memorize the passphrase or store the passphrases in approved Password Management software.

Store your passwords only in an approved Password Manager.

| Approved Password Managers | Website                                  |
|:---------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|
| LastPass                   | https://www.lastpass.com/                |
| Passpack                   | https://www.passpack.com/                |
| Apple Keychain             | https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204085 |

Pick unique, difficult to guess passwords. Passwords must:
	- Be at least 10 characters long
	- Not be used for any other accounts, including personal accounts
	- Be kept secret
	- Not be written down or stored anywhere except in approved Password Management software

Do not share credentials or passwords with other people except where individuals are require access to the same account for redunancy and the credentials are shared only through an approved Password Manager.

Do not transmitted passwords via email, SMS (text message) or instant messaging services except under special circumsntances such as providing credentials to a new account and the password will be immediately changed.

### Sensitive Information

You are a stewart of GovReady PBC sensitive information. GovReady PBC always handles with due care and does not share with unauthorized parties information regarding the internal operation of GovReady PBC and GovReady PBC clients. This includes emails, slack communications, details of internal discussions, documents and information relating to our clients. 

- GovReady PBC will only be disclosed to you with prior authorisation.
- Disclose GovReady PBC to others with prior authorization.
- Return all GovReady PBC you have in your possession upon the conclusion of your business relationship with GovReady PBC,  including any notes or paper records that belong to GovReady PBC or GovReady PBC clients.
- Use tools provided by or identified and approved by GovReady PBC, for example G-Suite and slack, to share information marked or identified as confidential.

GovReady PBC does not handle any on any of its systems information identified by the U.S. government as Classified.

### Client Data

You are a stewart of client information. GovReady PBC considers client data, and data from production systems to be especially sensitive and handled with additional care. GovReady PBC always encrypts client data in transit, and at rest (for example on an encrypted hard drive).

- Encrypted in transit, and at rest (for example on an encrypted hard drive). Do not store client data on a computer that doesnothave an encrypted hard drive.
- Do not share sensitive or proprietary client data via email. 
- Do not transmit client data via any network, unless it is encrypted in traffic.
- Share sensitive or proprietary client detail via secure file sharing service identified by the client of GovReady PBC. Thismaytake a couple of minutes longer, but you will have less worries.
- Securely destroy client sensitive or proprietary data as soon as it is no longer required to provide customer support.
- Store client data in Google Drive only if client approves.

### Clear Screen and Printers

Devices must be protected while unattended. Always:

- Lock computing devices (e.g. computer, mobile phone) when they are unattended.
- Immediately remove sensitive or classified information from printers.