| Key            | Details                                                                          |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Practice:      | 1                                                                                |
| Title: 	       | Practices Purpose and Guidelines                                                 |
| Last-Modified: | 2017-03-11                                                                       |
| Author: 	     | Greg Elin <gregelin at govready.com>                                             |
| Status: 	     | Draft                                                                            |
| Type: 	       | Process                                                                          |
| Created: 	     | 05-Mar-2017                                                                      |
| Post-History:  |                                                                                  |


## Content

- What is a Practice?
- Practice Types
- Practice Workflow
  - GovReady's Leadership
  - Practice Editors
  - Start with an idea for GovReady PBC
  - Submitting a Practice
  - Practice Review & Resolution
  - Practice Maintenance
- What belongs in a successful Practice?
- Practice Formats and Templates
- Practice Header Preamble
- Auxiliary Files
- Reporting Practice Bugs, or Submitting Practice Updates
- Transferring Practice Ownership
- Practice Editor Responsibilities & Workflow
- References and Footnotes
- Copyright

## What is a Practice?

A Practice is a design document providing information to the GovReady PBC community, or describing a new policy for the organization or its processes or environment. The Practice should provide conscise technique description for the policy or process and the rationale for it.

Practices were inspired by [Python PEP](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0001/) approach to coordinating community activities.

Practices are available publicly unless they contain specific information that would reasonably be understood as sensitive, proprietary, or tactical that [unethically] compromise GovReady PBC's management of risk.


## Practice Types

## Practice Workflow

  ### GovReady's Leadership

  ### Practice Editors

  ### Start with an idea for GovReady PBC

  ### Submitting a Practice

  ### Practice Review & Resolution

  ### Practice Maintenance

## What belongs in a successful Practice?

## Practice Formats and Templates

## Practice Header Preamble

## Auxiliary Files

## Reporting Practice Bugs, or Submitting Practice Updates

## Transferring Practice Ownership

## Practice Editor Responsibilities & Workflow

A Practice editor must subscribe to the <practices@govready.com> list. All correspondence related to Practice administration should be sent (or forwarded) to <practices@govready.com> (but please do not cross-post!).

For each new Practice that comes in an editor does the following:

* Read the Practice to check if it is ready: sound and complete. The ideas must make technical sense, even if they don't seem likely to be accepted.
* The title should accurately describe the content.
* Edit the Practice for language (spelling, grammar, sentence structure, etc.), markup (for reST Practices), code style (examples should match * Practice X & Y).
* If the Practice isn't ready, an editor will send it back to the author for revision, with specific instructions.

Once the Practice is ready for the repository, a Practice editor will:

* Assign a Practice number (almost always just the next available number, but sometimes it's a special/joke number, like 666 or 3141). Numbers below 100 are reserved for meta-Practices. Technical standards and/or Guides start at 1001.

* Add the Practice to a local clone of the Practice repository. For git workflow instructions, follow The Python Developers Guide

The git repo for the Practices is:

https://github.com/GovReady/govready-pbc-practices

* [Run ./genPracticeindex.py and ./Practice2html.py <Practice Number> to ensure they are generated without errors. If either triggers errors, then the web site will not be updated to reflect the Practice changes.]

* Commit and push the new (or updated) Practice

* Monitor https://github.com/GovReady/govready-pbc-practices to make sure the Practice gets added to the site properly. If it fails to appear, running make will build all of the current Practices. If any of these are triggering errors, they must be corrected before any Practice will update on the site.

Send email back to the Practice author with next steps (post to XXXX-list & -dev).

## References and Footnotes

## Copyright

This document will be placed in the public domain.
