| Key            | Details                                                                          |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Practice:      | 20                                                                               |
| Title: 	     | Risk Management Strategy                                                         |
| Last-Modified: | 2017-03-08                                                                       |
| Author: 	     | Greg Elin <gregelin at govready.com>                                             |
| Status: 	     | Draft                                                                            |
| Type: 	     | Process                                                                          |
| Created: 	     | 05-Mar-2017                                                                      |
| Post-History:  |                                                                                  |


## Content

- section 1
- section 2

## About this Document

This document is cleared for public release. 

[The official version of this document will be available at http://govready.com/practices/p-0020/.]


## Purpose
This Practice:

* describes GovReady PBC's risk management strategy that includes unambiguous statement of the organization's
  * risk concerns
  * prioritized assets 
  * risk tolerance
* establishes the NIST RMF (RMF) as the approach to managing risk in GovReady PBC information technology systems
* establishing associated cybersecurity policy
* assigns organization responsibilities for executing and maintaining GovReady's tailoring and implementation RMF


## Practice

## Knowledge Sharing

GovReady PBC's community of staff, customers, suppliers, and extended community need ready access to GovReady PBC's risk management policy and guidance to effectively and efficiently apply the appropriate methods, standards, and practices required to protect GovReady PBC IT. To address this challenge, GovReady PBC publishes "Practices" such as this document to its community. 

Practices are available publicly unless they contain specific information that would reasonably be understood as sensitive, proprietary, or tactical that [unethically] compromise GovReady PBC's management of risk.


## Who does what / Responsibilities

GovReady PBC CEO (CEO). The CEO:

1. Can be an individual or individuals recognized in law and organization by laws as the Chief Executive Officer
1. Defines and maintains the organization's risk management strategy, risk tolerance, and risk management resources
2. Communicates risk management strategy and risk tolerance 
3. Oversees implementation of this practice, directs and oversees the cybersecurity risk management of organization IT, distributes RMF information standards and sharing requirements, and regularly reviews and updates. 
4. Appoints practice agents and delegates to practice agents specific authority to oversee implementation of this practice

GovReady PBC Practice Agent. The Practice Agent:

1. Can be an individual or an organization
2. Oversees implementation of delegated areas of a pratice within the scope of their appointment
3. Continuously and honestly measures[instruments] and shares with CEO, practice agents, and teammates results of implementing the practice
4. Maintains appropriate records of their activities and deliverables
5. Reasonably assigns activities and deliverables to members of the GovReady PBC community to implement the practice

GovReady PBC Employees and Contractors (Team member). The Teammember:

1. Can be an individual or an organization
2. Agrees to continuously and honestly abide by this practice and all pertentant related policies, guidance, methods, standards (including professional industry standards and applicable laws)
3. Agrees to continuously and honestly contribute to the measuring and sharing with CEO, practice agents, and teammates implementing the practice
4. Maintains appropriate records of their activities and deliverables as required by implementation of the practice
5. Reasonably contributes to activities and deliverables advantageous to implementing the practice.
6. Reduces risk by accurately using only IT authorized and categorized appropriate level of confidentialilty, integrity, and availability to store, process, or transit protected information under GovReady PBC custody and not increase risk by allowing protected information under GovReady PBC's custody to be used (e.g., stored, processed, transmitted) in IT not authorized or categorized to the appropriate level of confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

GovReady PBC Information Technology and Systems (IT). The IT:

1. Can be software, hardware, system, or system of systems (including a system composed of both persons and technology)
2. Continuously and honestly implements this practice and all pertentant related policies, guidance, methods, standards (including professional industry standards and applicable laws)
3. Continuously and honestly measures[instruments] and shares adherance and divergence to implementing the practice
4. Is designed, architected, developed, and operated to implement this practice and all pertentant related policies, guidance, methods, standards (including professional industry standards and applicable laws)


## How


## What is a Risk Management Strategy?

## Separating Strategy from Tactics

## Risk Tolerance

GovReady PBC risk profile embraces both risk-adverse nature of our stability-oriented government agency customers and the greater risk tolerance associated with start-ups and small businesses that allow them to explore.

We resolve these seemingly opposing values through our belief that exhilarating summits are achieved only through excelling safety.

We believe and practice that improvements in safety enable greater achievement by bringing improved protection and recovery technologies, standards and practices inheritantly adverserial and unstable situations. 

We believing in aggressive and extensive modeling and testing within separate and safe environments so that we can take risks and failing quickly without doing irreversible harm to value and protected assets.

We believe continuous rehearsal and practice in carefuly constructed and real world scenarios leads to the best preparation and performance. We test extensively and restrict and prevent protected information from untested technology. We recognize breaches occur and leverage encryption and segration to limit consequences.

At GovReady PBC, Compliance is not security.  We treat security and compliance as distinct activities. Security genererally is the practice of preparing, preventing, responding, and recovering from avoidable and adverserial malbehaviors. Compliance generally is the practice of scaling reliable attestation and verification of qualities, conditions, and behaivors[performance]. Security sometimes employs secrets as a means to its end; compliance is only possible through sharing.

In short, GovReady PBC actively pursues risk in constrained, reversible environments and scenarios and actively minimizes avoids risk in real world through security in depth approaches. 


### Our Most Important Assets

- Values
- Reputation
- Community
- Individuals
- Entrusted Private Information
- Freedom
- Economics

### Our Most Significant Threats

- Sloppiness and carelessness
- Failing to share situational information
- Not following practices
- Lack of transparency
- Poor recovery mechanisms
- Insider and personnel threats

## Managing Information Security Risk

Because GovReady PBC develops and manages software systems used by the United States government clients, GovReady PBC uses the NIST Risk Management Framework as its primary strategy for managing information security risk.


## Governance
RMF GOVERNANCE

GovReady PBC implements a simplified version of the three-tiered approach to cybersecurity risk management described in NIST SP 800-39 (Reference (i)) to integrate risk management throughout the organization and in all phases of the IT life cycle.


a. Tier 1 – Organization. For the purposes of the RMF, the organization described in Tier 1 is the OSD or strategic level, and it addresses risk management at the GovReady PBC enterprise level. The key governance elements in Tier 1 are:

(1) The CEO. Directs and oversees the cybersecurity risk management of the organization.
(2) Risk Executive Function


Tier 2 - Mission/Business Processes

1. Practice Agent. A Practice Agent is appointed as necessary to operationalize the risk management strategy at the individual mission and business process. Practice Agents must:
(reword)
- (a) Represent the interests of the MA, as defined in Reference (m), and, as required, issues authorization guidance specific to the MA, consistent with this instruction.
- (b) Resolve authorization issues within their respective MAs and work with other PAOs to resolve issues among MAs, as needed.


Tier 3 – Information System

(1) AO. The DoD Component heads are responsible for the appointment of trained and qualified AOs for all DoD ISs and PIT systems within their Component. AOs should be appointed from senior leadership positions within business owner and mission owner organizations (as opposed to limiting appointments to CIO organizations) to promote accountability in authorization decisions that balance mission and business needs and security concerns. In addition to the responsibilities established in Reference (h), AOs must:

- (a) Comply with DoD ISRMC direction issued on behalf of the MA PAOs.
- (b) Ensure all appropriate RMF tasks are initiated and completed, with appropriate documentation, for assigned ISs and PIT systems.
- (c) Monitor and track overall execution of system-level POA&Ms.
- (d) Promote reciprocity to the maximum extent possible.
- (e) Not delegate authorization decisions. Other AO responsibilities and tasks may be delegated to formally appointed and qualified AO designated representatives (AODRs).


(2) IS or PIT System Cybersecurity Program. The system cybersecurity program consists of the policies, procedures, and activities of the ISO, PM/SM, UR, ISSM, and IS security officers (ISSOs) at the system level. The system cybersecurity program implements and executes policy and guidance from Tier 1 and Tier 2, and augments them as needed. The system cybersecurity program is responsible for establishing and maintaining the security of the system, including the monitoring and reporting of the system security status. Specific cybersecurity program responsibilities include:

- (a) ISOs must:
(p18)


2. RMF ROLE APPOINTMENT. Table 1 identifies the appropriate authority for the appointment of RMF roles.
Table 1. Appointment of RMF Roles

\
(3) Leveraging of an Existing Authorization. The final approach, leveraged authorization, is employed when a DoD AO chooses to accept some or all of the information in an existing security authorization package generated by another federal agency or other DoD
DoDI 8510.01, March 12, 2014

￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Change 1, 05/24/2016 26 ENCLOSURE 6
Component (referred to in this instruction as the “owning organization”) based on a need to use the same information resources (e.g., IS or services provided by the system). The DoD Component AO reviews the owning organization’s security authorization package as the basis for determining risk to the leveraging organization before accepting the authorization. It is DoD policy that the reciprocal acceptance of existing DoD and other federal agency and department system authorizations (i.e., leveraged authorizations), and the artifacts contributing to the authorization decisions, must be employed to the maximum extent. See Enclosure 5 of this instruction and the KS for additional procedural guidance regarding reciprocity.

d. Security Plan. DoD IS and PIT systems must have a security plan that provides an overview of the security requirements for the system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The security plan should include implementation status, responsible entities, resources, and estimated completion dates. Security plans may also include, but are not limited to, a compiled list of system characteristics or qualities required for system registration, key security-related documents such as a risk assessment, privacy impact assessment, system interconnection agreements, contingency plan, security configurations, configuration management plan, and incident response plan.

2. RMF STEPS. The RMF consists of the steps depicted in Figure 3. This process parallels the system life cycle, with the RMF activities being initiated at program or system inception (e.g., documented during capabilities identification or at the implementation of a major system modification). However, failure to initiate the RMF at system or program inception is not a justification for ignoring or not complying with the RMF. IS and PIT systems without ATOs must initiate the RMF in accordance with Enclosure 8 of this instruction and Tables 3 and 4, as appropriate, regardless of the system life-cycle stage (e.g., acquisition, operation). Chapter 3 of Reference (c) details the steps of the RMF, and paragraphs 2a through 2f provide amplifying DoD implementation guidance for those steps.


## Reciprocity

1. Cybersecurity reciprocity (referred to in this instruction as “reciprocity”) is an essential element in ensuring IT capabilities are developed and fielded rapidly and efficiently across the GovReady PBC extended community. Applied appropriately, reciprocity reduces redundant testing, assessing and documentation, and the associated costs in time and resources. This practice presumes acceptance of existing test and assessment results and authorization documentation. In order to facilitate reciprocity, the following concepts are fundamental to a common understanding and must be adhered to:

a. Information Systems have only a single valid authorization. (Multiple authorizations indicate multiple systems under separate ownership and configuration control.)

b. An Information System and its valid authorization shall clearly define the edges (e.g., boundaries), interfaces (e.g., inter-connects), and other operating environment interactions (e.g., impacts) such that the Information System can be operated in conjuction with or as part of another information system or environment without harming or jeopardy to receiving information system and its valid authorization or environment. 

c. Information Systems that anticipate interacting with other information systems must make their security requirements readily findable and available in accordance with this practice so that others seeking appropriately authorized to operate and interact with the system can self-coordinate their development of systems. (reword intent is to make systems accountable for providing documentation that allows others to operate and interact with the system with a full understanding and acceptance of risk and be able to innovate. The street will find its own use for technology. Also accepting that innovation unknowable.)

d. An authorization decision for and Information System cannot be made without completing the required assessments and analysis, as recorded in the security authorization package. 

e. Deploying organizations must provide the complete security authorization package to receiving organizations. 

f. security authorization documentation will be developed using GovReady tools or other interoperable tools to provide electronic, shared visibility

g. The process for receiving organization to accept IS and PIT systems is:
- (1) Review the complete security authorization package.
- (2) Determine the security impact of connecting the deploying system within the receiving enclave or site.
- (3) Determine the risk of hosting the deploying system within the enclave or site.
- (4) If the risk is acceptable, execute a documented agreement between deploying and receiving organizations (e.g., memorandum of understanding (MOU), memorandum of agreement (MOA), SLA) for the maintenance and monitoring of the security posture of the system (security controls, computer network defense service provider (CNDSP), etc.).
- (5) Document the acceptance by the receiving AO.

p 21



## References and Footnotes

[x] "DoD RMF practitioners need ready access to RMF policy and guidance to effectively and efficiently apply the appropriate methods, standards, and practices required to protect DoD IT." DoDI 8510.01, March 12, 2014, Enclosure 7, p. 41.

## Copyright

Copyright 2017, GovReady PBC. All Rights Currently Reserved.
