| Key            | Details                                                                          |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Practice:      | 19                                                                               |
| Title:         | Interim Risk Management Strategy                                                 |
| Last-Modified: | 2017-03-11                                                                       |
| Author:        | Greg Elin <gregelin at govready.com>                                             |
| Status:        | Draft                                                                            |
| Type:          | Process                                                                          |
| Created:       | 11-Mar-2017                                                                      |
| Post-History:  |                                                                                  |


Contents
========

  * [About this Document](#about-this-document)
  * [Purpose](#purpose)
  * [Practice](#practice)
  * [Knowledge Sharing](#knowledge-sharing)
  * [Organization Risk Tolerance Statement](#organization-risk-tolerance-statement)
     * [Our Most Important Assets](#our-most-important-assets)
     * [Our Most Significant Threats](#our-most-significant-threats)
  * [Managing Information Security Risk](#managing-information-security-risk)
  * [Risk Management Roles and Responsibilities](#risk-management-roles-and-responsibilities)
        * [GovReady PBC CEO (CEO). The CEO:](#govready-pbc-ceo-ceo-the-ceo)
        * [GovReady PBC Practice Agent. The Practice Agent:](#govready-pbc-practice-agent-the-practice-agent)
        * [GovReady PBC Employees and Contractors (Team member). The Teammember:](#govready-pbc-employees-and-contractors-team-member-teammember)
        * [GovReady PBC Information Technology and Systems (IT). The IT:](#govready-pbc-information-technology-and-systems-it-the-it)
  * [References and Footnotes](#references-and-footnotes)
  * [Copyright](#copyright)

About this Document
===================

This document is cleared for public release. 

The official version of this document will be available at http://govready.com/practices/p-0019/.


Purpose
=======

This Practice:

  * describes GovReady PBC's interim risk management strategy that includes unambiguous statement of the organization's
    * risk tolerance
    * prioritized risks
    * prioritized assets 
  * establishes the NIST RMF (RMF) as the approach to managing risk in GovReady PBC information technology systems
  * assigns organization responsibilities for executing and maintaining GovReady's tailoring and implementation of the RMF


## Practice

## Knowledge Sharing

GovReady PBC's community of staff, customers, suppliers, and extended community need ready access to GovReady PBC's risk management policy and guidance to effectively and efficiently apply the appropriate methods, standards, and practices required to protect GovReady PBC IT. To address this challenge, GovReady PBC publishes "Practices" such as this document to its community. [1]

Practices are available publicly unless they contain specific information that would reasonably be understood as sensitive, proprietary, or tactical that [unethically] compromise GovReady PBC's management of risk.

## Organization Risk Tolerance Statement

GovReady PBC risk profile embraces both risk-adverse nature of our stability-oriented government agency customers and the greater risk tolerance associated with start-ups and small businesses that allow them to explore.

We resolve these seemingly opposing values through our belief that exhilarating summits are achieved only through excelling safety.

We believe and practice that improvements in safety enable greater achievement by bringing improved protection and recovery technologies, standards and practices inheritantly adverserial and unstable situations. 

We believing in aggressive and extensive modeling and testing within separate and safe environments so that we can take risks and failing quickly without doing irreversible harm to value and protected assets.

We believe continuous rehearsal and practice in carefuly constructed and real world scenarios leads to the best preparation and performance. We test extensively and restrict and prevent protected information from untested technology. We recognize breaches occur and leverage encryption and segration to limit consequences.

At GovReady PBC, Compliance is not security.  We treat security and compliance as distinct activities. Security genererally is the practice of preparing, preventing, responding, and recovering from avoidable and adverserial malbehaviors. Compliance generally is the practice of scaling reliable attestation and verification of qualities, conditions, and behaivors[performance]. Security sometimes employs secrets as a means to its end; compliance is only possible through sharing.

In short, GovReady PBC actively pursues risk in constrained, reversible environments and scenarios and actively minimizes avoids risk in real world through security in depth approaches. 


### Our Most Important Assets

GovReady's PBC most important assests in rough order of priority are:

  - Our freedom to respectively self-determine GovReady's PBC present and future
  - Our intentional operating incentives, inrastructure and observable, repeatable, measurable behaviors that reinforce and improve our core values
  - Our core community that intentionally acts to help us succeed
  - The integrity and availability of the intellectual property we provide to our extended community and the public that helps them succeed
  - Private/sensitive information fairly entrusted to us by our extended community
     - shared credentials
     - Sensitive Personally Identifiabe Information
     - Information marked confidential and shared with us under agreed non-disclosure
     - matrix information that could be used to falsely impersonate individuals
  - Private/sensitive information and practices that are required to be kept secret in order to successfully protect our prioritized assets
     - private keys and passphrases to private keys
     - master passwords
     - recovery keys
     - matrix information that could be used to falsely impersonate executives
  - Privileged physical or digital access to the locations and systems controlling access to protected assets
  - The integrity of the tools and processes that provide evidence of the reality of ours and other's actions
  - The reputation of the organization and our staff among to ourself and among our core associates and customers
  - Having the economic means and stability to continuously improve and thrive as an organization, individuals, and extended community
  - The perception of the organization, our staff, and extended community in the media and with the public who does not know us directly

### Our Most Significant Threats

  - Sloppiness and carelessness
  - Failing to share situational information
  - Not following practices
  - Lack of transparency
  - Poor recovery mechanisms
  - Insider and personnel threats

## Managing Information Security Risk

Because GovReady PBC develops and manages software systems used by the United States government clients, GovReady PBC uses the NIST Risk Management Framework as its primary strategy for managing information security risk.

## Risk Management Roles and Responsibilities

GovReady PBC is a currently a small organization. As part of this practice, the following roles and responsibilities exist.

#### GovReady PBC CEO (CEO). The CEO:

  1. Can be an individual or individuals recognized in law and organization by laws as the Chief Executive Officer
  1. Defines and maintains the organization's risk management strategy, risk tolerance, and risk management resources
  2. Communicates risk management strategy and risk tolerance 
  3. Oversees implementation of this practice, directs and oversees the cybersecurity risk management of organization IT, distributes RMF   information standards and sharing requirements, and regularly reviews and updates. 
  4. Appoints practice agents and delegates to practice agents specific authority to oversee implementation of this practice

#### GovReady PBC Practice Agent. The Practice Agent:

  1. Can be an individual or an organization
  2. Oversees implementation of delegated areas of a pratice within the scope of their appointment
  3. Continuously and honestly measures[instruments] and shares with CEO, practice agents, and teammates results of implementing the practice
  4. Maintains appropriate records of their activities and deliverables
  5. Reasonably assigns activities and deliverables to members of the GovReady PBC community to implement the practice

#### GovReady PBC Employees and Contractors (Team member). The Teammember:

  1. Can be an individual or an organization
  2. Agrees to continuously and honestly abide by this practice and all pertentant related policies, guidance, methods, standards (including   professional industry standards and applicable laws)
  3. Agrees to continuously and honestly contribute to the measuring and sharing with CEO, practice agents, and teammates implementing the practice
  4. Maintains appropriate records of their activities and deliverables as required by implementation of the practice
  5. Reasonably contributes to activities and deliverables advantageous to implementing the practice.
  6. Reduces risk by accurately using only IT authorized and categorized appropriate level of confidentialilty, integrity, and availability to   store, process, or transit protected information under GovReady PBC custody and not increase risk by allowing protected information under GovReady PBC's custody to be used (e.g., stored, processed, transmitted) in IT not authorized or categorized to the appropriate level of confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

#### GovReady PBC Information Technology and Systems (IT). The IT:

  1. Can be software, hardware, system, or system of systems (including a system composed of both persons and technology)
  2. Continuously and honestly implements this practice and all pertentant related policies, guidance, methods, standards (including professional   industry standards and applicable laws)
  3. Continuously and honestly measures[instruments] and shares adherance and divergence to implementing the practice
  4. Is designed, architected, developed, and operated to implement this practice and all pertentant related policies, guidance, methods, standards (including professional industry standards and applicable laws)


## References and Footnotes

[1] "DoD RMF practitioners need ready access to RMF policy and guidance to effectively and efficiently apply the appropriate methods, standards, and practices required to protect DoD IT." DoDI 8510.01, March 12, 2014, Enclosure 7, p. 41.

## Copyright

Copyright 2017, GovReady PBC. All Rights Currently Reserved.
